.TH FAMD.CONF "5" "January 19, 2003" "famd.conf (fam 2.6.10)" "SGI"
.SH NAME
famd.conf \- The File Alteration Monitor (FAM) configuration file
.SH SYNOPSIS
In addition to its command line options, \fBfamd\fR's behavior
can also be controlled through its configuration file.  By
default, this is \fI/usr/local/etc/fam.conf\fR.  The \fB\-c\fR
command line option can be used to specify an alternate file.
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
Configuration lines are in the format \fBoption=value\fR.
Lines beginning with \fB#\fR or \fB!\fR are ignored.
\fBfamd\fR recognizes the following options:
.TP 26
\fBinsecure_compatibility\fR
If set to \fItrue\fR, this disables authentication and reduces access security
as described under SECURITY below.  This is \fIfalse\fR by default.  Setting
this option to \fItrue\fR is the same as using the \fB\-C\fR command line
option.
.TP
\fBuntrusted_user\fR
This is the user name or UID of the user account which \fBfamd\fR will use for
unauthenticated clients.  If a file can't be \fBstat\fRed by this user,
\fBfamd\fR will not tell unauthenticated clients about the file's existence.
If an untrusted user is not given in the configuration file, \fBfamd\fR will
write an error message to the system log and terminate.
.TP
\fBlocal_only\fR
If set to \fItrue\fR, \fBfamd\fR will ignore requests from remote \fBfamd\fRs.
This is \fIfalse\fR by default.  Setting this option to \fBtrue\fR is the same
as using the \fB\-L\fR command line option.  This option is ignored if
\fBfamd\fR is started by \fBinetd\fR.
.TP
\fBidle_timeout\fR
This is the time in seconds that famd will wait before exiting after its last
client disconnects.  The default is \fI5\fR seconds.  This option is overridden
by the \fB-T\fR command line option.
.TP
\fBnfs_polling_interval\fR
This is the interval in seconds between polling files over an NFS filesystem.
The default is \fI6\fR seconds.  This option is overridden by the \fB-t\fR
command line option.
.TP
\fBxtab_verification\fR
If set to \fItrue\fR, \fBfamd\fR will check the list of exported filesystems
when remote requests are received to verify that the requests fall on
filesystems which are exported to the requesting hosts.  This is
\fItrue\fR by default.  If this option is set to \fIfalse\fR, \fBfamd\fR will
service remote requests without attempting to perform the verification.  If
the \fBlocal_only\fR configuration option or \fB-L\fR command line option is
used, \fBxtab_verification\fR has no effect.
.SH "SEE ALSO"

