.TH FAMD "8" "January 19, 2003" "famd (fam 2.6.10)" SGI
.SH NAME
famd \- The File Alteration Monitor (FAM) daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBfamd\fR [\fB\-CdflLv\fR] [\fB\-C\fR \fIconffile\fR] [\fB\-p\fR \fIprog.vers\fR] [\fB\-t\fR \fIperiod\fR] [\fB\-T\fR \fItimeout\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBFAM\fR, the File Alteration Monitor, is a subsystem that
applications can use to be notified when specific files
or directories are changed.  It is intended as a
replacement for mechanisms such as \fBpoll\fR and \fBselect\fR.
.P
\fBFAM\fR comes in two parts: \fBfamd\fR, the daemon that listens
for requests and provides notifications, and \fBlibfam\fR\,
a library that client applications can use to
communicate with \fBFAM\fR.  For further information on \fBlibfam\fR,
see the \fBfam(3)\fR manual page.
.P
\fBfamd\fR is normally started by an Internet superserver
such as \fBinetd\fR or \fBxinetd\fR, but can also be started
independently.  Only one instance of \fBfamd\fR can be
run at a time.
.P
\fBfamd\fR can be configured by editing the famd configuration
file (see \fIfamd.conf(5)\fR for further details) or by
providing the following command line options:
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR \fIconffile\fR
Read configuration information from \fIconffile\fR.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR
Run in backwards compatibilty mode.  This is disables
authentication and is not recommended.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Run in the foreground.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Enable verbose messages.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Enable verbose messages and debug messages.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR
Disable polling of files on remote NFS servers.
.TP
\fB\-L\fR
Only accept connections from local clients.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIprog\fR.\fIvers\fR
Register with the portmapper using the specifed RPC program
and version numbers.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fIperiod\fR
Poll a remove NFS server every \fIperiod\fR seconds
to obtain file updates if the remove server is not running \fBfamd\fR.
.TP
\fB\-T\fR \fItimeout\fR
Exit \fItimeout\fR seconds after the last client disconnects.
A value of 0 causes \fBfamd\fR to run forever.
.SH SECURITY
\fBfamd\fR never opens the files it's monitoring, and only monitors
files that the client can \fBstat\fR.
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI/usr/local/etc/famd.conf\fR
Default \fBfamd\fR configuration file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fam(3), famd.conf(5), inetd(8), portmap(8), stat(1), xinetd(8)
.SH BUGS
